the core value that gets lost here on
the Internet is the value of Tolerance
okay you can't just cooperate with
people who agree with you on every
little thing or on every big fundamental
thing you know you want to make a
difference in habitat conservation guess
what the majority of people who care
about keeping the forests intact
preserving the lives of wild animals are
going to turn out to be hunters they're
not just meat eaters they're evil
hunters that's you're going to cooperate
with here in Canada who cares about the
Bears it's not vegans I wish it was I
wish I could tell you there were
millions of vegans in Canada who care
about you know wild bear habitat there's
a tiny number of vegans and they're
going to have to learn to cooperate with
people of fundamental political
differences from them with the in
veganism not everyone is left-wing some
people are left-wing some people are
right-wing some people are in the center
you've got to learn to get organized
you've got to learn to work with people
who are much more different from you in
a deep way than the kind of shallow
differences that people are attacking
each other or here on the Internet
I see so many vegans especially like
high carb vegans or whatever which
there's nothing wrong with that but I
see so many telling people that you can
literally eat unlimited calories as its
unlimited like 6,000 calories a day and
stay lean or not gain weight and that's
just not physically possible for any
animal on the planet to overeat no
matter what macronutrients are you is
not possible for any animals on this
planet
like over eat that much and not gain
weight so that's just a lie and I don't
know why we're spreading it like what
the whole it's I guess it's just to
encourage people to go like follow this
compassionate lifestyle and be like well
you can do this and get skinny because
people are so interested in being thin
and being fit but they think they can
spread that and bring them to mechanism
but honestly a lot of people will
believe that come to veganism for that
sole reason see that it doesn't work and
think veganism as a whole is not worth
it so it backfires so when you're
spreading these radical and false ideas
you're just reiterating the fact in
these none or it means like all the boys
mind that vegans are these like crazy
radicals and you're lying to them like
why would you ever lie anyways
this video is not about diet or exercise
but it is about veganism the message a
return to most often on this channel is
fundamentally very positive because what
I tell people again and again is that
profound social change is possible here
and now in our lifetimes in the next 10
years however I also say if you want
that change you have to go and get it
you have to make it happen I do not
encourage anyone to believe that they
can just post beautiful pictures on
Instagram and wait for the world to
change around them my model of activism
is active in a word um what does it mean
to influence people I had a response fan
of mine drew my attention to this on
Instagram this woman who have never
spoken to to my knowledge he's never
sent me an email as possible she didn't
under another name
she writes I've been inspired by as
Elmas are about the sale on YouTube to
be more active in the vegan / green
community as it cannot be all about yoga
pants and pretty food like it has been
for the last few years in order to do so
my account is going to switch from
English to French so I can talk about
important topics and give practical
advice to people the country I live in
one of the least vegan friendly in the
world
I've lived in France as a vegan it's
true - my dear 650 followers if you
decide to unfollow me I will totally
understand it and I thank you for the
support so far it has been a blessing
when you look at what used to be on her
blog her Instagram page um it is the
type of you know I can't I can't call
this lifestyle activism it's the type of
celebration of a life of a parent
abundance self-indulgence wealth luxury
etc that many vegans claim
is the most effective form of activism
and I don't believe for a minute if
you're still watching this channel you
probably don't believe for a minute
either but you have to take these claims
seriously there are people who really do
believe it who are not being cynical who
are not trying to manipulate you or
anyone else there are people who
sincerely wanted to make the world a
better place
by taking photographs of food and
vacations and you know swimming in the
ocean and where vases in this stuff and
in some cases they were spawn to the
type of critique I have posted here on
the internet as this woman did because
they really sincerely want those things
they really sincerely want to make the
world a better place and then at some
point they start thinking about how the
means the methods how are they going to
make the world a better place and my
channel offers a very different set of
answers to those questions now likewise
I remember talking about this with Hania
I've talked about this with all kinds of
people I talked about this with direct
action everywhere on the other extreme
there are people who have been
protesting in the streets you know
holding up signs and chanting and after
they do that for a while they again
start to reconsider how reconsider
they still want the same things they
still want to make the world a better
place but they think there has got to be
a better way to do it that numb
attending the same protest again
marching up and down the same street
again shouting at as strangers with a
sign the animals please don't hate
chicken want to live just as much as a
dog cat love no homes they just wanted
to live too and they deserve their life
and right now their eggs and their milk
and their bodies are on plates inside
this restaurant no poor people are crazy
Jack I'm eccentric and some of those
people come to my channel and likewise
they suddenly are given a very different
set of answers a very different set of
questions and a very different kind of
toolkit for addressing what kind of
change we can bring about in the next 10
years
um how we can live meaningful lives and
pursue that change you know without
without having to live in a cave without
having to sacrifice everything else that
that matters to us in this life so this
is the kind of influence I have had on
people that I've had on some people some
people who used to just be lifestyle
activists come to my channel and are
influenced to start thinking much more
seriously about shall we say real
activism political activism and some
people who already deeply engaged with
political activism begin thinking about
effective activism and I hear about this
through email but now just in the last
few weeks I've had a patreon open I
really encourage you guys to pay that $1
to join that patreon not because the
dollar goes to me but boy the $1 fee for
entry means that the quality of
discussions we have in the comments on
that patreon page it's way way higher
than what you get in a comment section
on YouTube and there are some people who
you know in responding to my channel
have really been thinking about methods
of community organization activism
lately I've been talking a lot to Aimee
and Alexa people who have some prior
experience with community organization
and are now looking at methods of how to
make a difference in the town they live
how to organize whatever talent they've
got local people interested to to bring
both social change so it's very
gratifying to me to see you know those
outcomes to see people rolling up their
sleeves and trying to make a positive
difference in the world even though I'm
packing up
to move to China I can't get involved
with organizing a political movement
here in Canada
I can't invoke organizing a political
movement of any kind anywhere within the
next pardon me twelve months to a year
the type of influence I've had even if
it is on a small number of people has
been positive at a time when other
vegans were telling everyone to drop at
a school I was the one guy telling
people to stay in school at a time when
Gary Yourofsky was talking about
violence and illegal activity I was
talking in a systematic way about legal
democratic methods of making social
change and the other big topic I've
talked about from my perspective is
tolerance it's very much relevant to
what we're saying this in this video
look up an old video I have here called
vegans kill rats and if you look at the
subtitle the point of that video it's
not just about rats it's not just about
the fact that vegans no matter how pious
and well intentioned
end up in situations where they gotta
kill rats very sad but happens happens
to the best of us if we're honest about
it
it's about tolerance you cannot be
involved in politics without having
profound tolerance for people who are
profoundly different from you that woman
I just quoted from Instagram living
somewhere in France apparently living a
beautiful lifestyle apparently swimming
in the ocean and eating plates of
fabulous food I doubt that's her whole
life but that's how it looks on
Instagram I'm sure she has many many
differences from a profound difference
it's hard for me to guess how different
birds use but she's able to look at my
channel she may disagree with 50% of
what I say find what's useful in it
analyze it apply it to her own life and
she's taken a really positive influence
from these discussions I've been having
on this channel you seen any recently
interview I have an interview on this
channel with an 18 year old girl who's
only been vegan for a few months she's
in university now and
she's wanting to become an activist
they're not that many views on that
video it's an hour-long discussion she
was asking me for my advice on on how to
make something happen so you know these
are the positive spin-offs of this
channel and what I do on this channel
which is not about diet it's not what
exercise don't know anyone could miss
something that obvious but I think the
core value that gets lost here on the
Internet is the value of Tolerance okay
you can't just cooperate with people who
agree with you on every little thing or
on every big fundamental thing you know
you want to make a difference in habitat
conservation guess what the majority of
people who care about keeping the
forests intact preserving the lives of
wild animals are going to turn out to be
hunters they're not just meat eaters
they're evil hunters that's you're going
to cooperate with here in Canada who
cares about the Bears it's not vegans I
wish it was I wish I could tell you
there were millions of vegans in Canada
who care about you know wild bear
habitat there's a tiny number of vegans
and they're gonna have to learn to
cooperate with people of fundamental
political differences from them within
veganism not everyone is left-wing some
people are left-wing some people are
right-wing some people are in the center
you've got to learn to get organized
you've got to get learned you've got to
learn to work with people who are much
more different from you in a deep way
than the kind of shallow differences
that people are attacking each other for
here on the Internet who wears too much
makeup everybody everybody except me
wears too much makeup all right I'm not
I'm not starting fights over there it's
not it's not we should be discussing uh
in a really deep sense you need to have
mastered tolerance in all its
implications to do politics including
this very strange attenuated form of
political organization we're doing right
now by having this conversation through
a video camera over the Internet okay
I've reached out to a lot of people I
have this much in common with their
ethical vegan
but everything else about them is
different real tolerance on my part it's
a real willingness to reach out find
common ground try to make something
positive happen in the future try to set
up some basis for cooperation
collaboration long term I'm thinking for
the next five years the next 10 years
look at the people I've interviewed on
this channel violent vegan you know his
name's a joke he's not really violent
what do I have in common with him
basically nothing a nice guy happy to
talk to him by me I'm reaching these
people you've got to give people a
chance and you know no nobody gives me a
chance I get it I get a lot a lot of
hatred from people who don't have this
capacity to just see to look at me and
say well okay I differ from this guy and
some things but what's positive what
what can I work with Wow can I cooperate
with this person despite whatever
differences are there and you know the
capacity to tolerate even things about
me you may really perceive to be wrong
or just politically alien or even
immoral you know any of these people I'm
going to meet who are on vacation in
Thailand they're going to be pretty
pretty the differences but I reach out I
make that effort Hannah and Jason Haney
and Jason are two vegan activists living
in Israel currently when they reached
out to me I was surprised we don't have
a lot in common I thought they might
hate me you know I was delighted to find
they don't hate me they've been
following my channel for a while they
were fans of my work they were really
excited to talk to me great we have
differences but I'm looking to build on
the common ground
you know I tolerate those differences so
far as you know I think both Jason and
Hannah have made anti-vaccine statements
you guys may know I'm pro science I'm
Pro vaccine in general and pro modern
medicine
I am definitely anything as far as I
know that's that's the difference
between us guess what I'm not saying
they're right I must say it's okay I
tolerate it and I see the good in them
and I try to cooperate in collaborate
with them and I'm thinking long term I'm
not thinking about getting an extra 100
views on YouTube by starting a fight and
insulting someone and tearing them down
today that's really short-term thinking
it's really counterproductive that's
really deeply negative and we all need
to move past that paradigm all right
there are some things you can't tolerate
I've talked about political extremism on
this channel you know extreme right-wing
extreme left-wing there are some people
you can't cooperate with fine be honest
with yourself be honest with them move
on it happens but I mean within limits
I got email from people asking why I
didn't attack penny and Jason why I
didn't care than them my purpose in life
is not to attack anyone it's try to make
something positive happen and people
have been deeply influenced by an ultra
hostile paradigm presented by people
like freelee and durianrider who make
their living by generating needless
conflict demonstrating needless
hostility and providing a type of
entertainment basically by by starting
fights over nothing now one of my
catchphrases is that I'm not a nice guy
and I don't even pretend to be a nice
guy when I think someone is an idiot I
do say they're an idiot what I think
someone is wrong I say they're wrong
many of you will have tuned into this
video expecting me to call Julia Bohr a
girl who's been denouncing me on the
internet lately to call her an idiot I
do not think she's an idiot I don't
there are many videos in which she acts
like a fool but I actually do not think
she's stupid what she is jealous of me
because I can smash it as much rice and
jam and sugar and whatever good stuff I
can vegan pizza without having a drop of
guilt and knowing that I do billing
anyways in like a couple of years and
then she will be staying there jealous
knocking on her root echoes and be like
[ __ ] this [ __ ] and she was still be
sitting there under her blanket in front
of her laptop writing rage comments
excuse me where's my cucumber stop being
frustrated little [ __ ] just because I
tell the truth and you [ __ ] know it
I believe her age is 16
when I sent her an email I assumed she
was 19 or older because I assumed her
parents would not allow her to do the
things she's been doing including like
making trips to Thailand alone I don't
know who lets their sixteen-year-old
daughter go to Thailand I don't know
probably if you by the end of this video
you'll be convinced you shouldn't let
your 1600 daughter have a have an iPhone
or use the Internet I mean you may ask
yourself a lot of questions about
parenting for this video but look I I
don't think julia borer is an idiot and
I'm not here to call her an idiot not at
all those of you have watched some of
her videos maybe shark and say well come
on she's saying a lot of stupid stuff
well she is very strongly influenced by
what I've just mentioned this habitus
there's a real anthropology term there's
habitus popularized by freelee and
durianrider of acting over-the-top
attacking people denouncing people and
starting fights over nothing over who's
wearing too much makeup or some trivial
thing instead of doing just stuff and
talk about analyze someone's work find
what's useful in it for you acknowledge
the differences compromise tolerance
above all else tolerance and you know
work for a better tomorrow right
politically or even just socially isn't
that what we all should be doing you
know why you going to Thailand are you
going to tie line to make friends go on
telling to make enemies going to this
big vegan summit what are you going for
even me I'm going to make friends I'm
looking for people I can work with I
want to know people 10 years from now
that I met today for me it's a long game
alright I'm not playing for an extra
1000 views this week or an extra 10,000
subscribers this month not my game I
really want to build institutions I
really want to change the world have
given so many examples of how attainable
that is Mothers Against Drunk Driving or
any of these other humble civil society
organizations the gay rights advocacy
groups that God organized got an office
really change the world sure I want to
make something positive happen
want to make it happen with you whoever
you are watching this and you know Julie
abort
turns out she's 16 she's going to grow
up ten years from now she'll be 26 I see
potential in her also to make a positive
change in the world I really do
I got no hate in my heart for I wasn't
writing to her with any hatred in my
mind either
so I've written hundreds of emails to
other vegans just saying hi or telling
them I like their YouTube channel or you
know starting a conversation over the
past several years and probably hundreds
of people watching this nail met me that
way got an email from me in some cases
the email want the other way whatever so
I wrote this email to Julia uh say
winder second the email just reads this
is the whole thing hi Julia
I saw your references to dicey tap are
you going to chiang mai thailand this
year by the way you might get a kick out
of some of my videos the link to my
channel now um
for one thing is you again i assume she
was 19 to 21 just because of the nature
of her internet presence i guess she has
very permissive parents and she's 16
some of you may laugh and say how could
you possibly even make that effort you
know extend this hand of friendship to
julia specifically because her content
is so extreme well again there's a
difference between being a fool and
acting a fool behaving like a fool some
of her videos she's acting like a fool
but you know she had a she had an
interview with a recovering anorexic
called the vegan lass and despite the
fact that there have been tremendous
hostility between the two of them
they've been shooting each other in the
first half the interview you see that
hostility and then at a certain point
about halfway through they're both
talking to each other like reasonable
people you can contrast the angry early
part and then they say well it looks
like our views are not so different
after all
i think everyone can make the choice and
i think everyone can just go ahead and
change their life because happiness is a
choice
eating the choice of the moment if you
have a [ __ ] fridge in your kitchen
you can go and open it and eat at any
time too
okay guys who actually can it seems that
despite the fact that Julian I have been
each other other's throats
it actually seems that our messages
actually really came down Elaine and
what we've been seeing each other have
just kinda taken of TechNet of contents
and Cainan twisted and not really
understand each other trough which so
maybe it's recklessly generous of me to
look at a young woman whatever age she
was i didn't know who can do that and
think well she acts a fool on some of
her videos but maybe there's more to her
maybe she's a person of some substance
given that she could put aside her
hostility and work things out with this
other youtuber the vegan last because
they had been they had been bitter
enemies and look I think there all kinds
of people have talked to even on this
channel if I didn't give people the
benefit of the doubt if I didn't give
people if I didn't tolerate people if I
didn't make that effort I would have
never talked to Hannah and everywhere to
talk to Jason I never talked to Leah
Leah's on this channel I didn't I didn't
know what to think of her before we got
in touch she could a lot of people who
met her about a year ago they said that
that leah was a clone was a zombie was a
mindless follower of during write and
freely people change especially when
they're around 20 years old I checked
between age 16 and age 26
you think I didn't change we all do we
all change in just a few years now I
mean here's the problem with during
writers influence her reply is and I
quote what do you want from the eyes'll
are you trying to turn me against the
writer you got the wrong person mate
[ __ ] off so you know you try but if
that's the response you get Moon's right
you know try anymore um so my reply was
simply to say Julia in five years you're
going to look back at this and laugh for
yourself and I'm not talking about
anything specific I'm not talking about
her views on diet or politics or
anything else specifically but the fact
that you're the type of person who
responds to an email like that by
telling someone to [ __ ] off
you know I think five years from now
whatever age she was whatever age you
will be I don't know
you're gonna look back and laugh at
yourself um not cruel not me not
provoking anything but I assume that was
the end of the conversation okay like I
said hi to you I said hi to you because
I think we might meet each other in
Thailand
um if not okay in five years you'll look
back at it and see things differently
yeah I learned I've learned a lot in
every five years of my life let's leave
it at that
Julia writes back yes I'm going to laugh
at the fact that I ever doubted this
lifestyle and wasted my time on this
shitty conversation haha oh I should
mention by the way I'm only posting this
publicly because she already did so this
is not private correspondence anymore
she slightly misrepresented what I said
only slightly and she did post her own
email publicly on her on her website so
I'm not outing this private conversation
she already went public with it and she
had some pretty hilarious responses from
her fans and from my fans also some of
my fans wrote in to her I think some of
my fans are sincerely concerned for her
well-being
she continues go head make a video
slamming me haha we all know you're not
vegan as if you would you wouldn't go
after the people who did more for the
vegan movement than you ever did and
ever will you're just a stupid [ __ ] and
a hater who's jealous of Drs success
while sitting at your table and bitching
haha that's good she included the haha
there because otherwise I wouldn't know
she was having fun
what about interviewing righto for
success stories haha when you go to
Chiang Mai catch up with vegan Ava she's
going to look like freely in a few
months
you really think veganism is about what
you look like because I don't
it's not like for me veganism is not
about looking like freely it's not about
looking like Patrick Stewart it's not
about looking like anything it's it's
really not I continue but not you just
look up righto for noobs who didn't even
own a bike or did the lifestyle properly
and got frustrated that they gained
weight after years of abusing their
bodies are you really that [ __ ]
[ __ ] that you think years of
anorexia will be reversed in two weeks
get a grip and some basic logic now I
have over 200 videos on my channel of it
is needless to say if those of you are
my fans
I have never discussed anorexia or these
issues that mean beyond commenting on
durianrider zone claims about anorexia I
mean this is not what my channel is
about you say righto Ford doesn't work
it's actually not what I say if you
watch my videos on righto 4 you might
find it's more interesting than that but
anyway uh yet there are countless
examples of people losing weight and
thriving on it you hook up with people
who are so lazy that they ride a motor
scooter to the corner restaurant and
spend their time backstabbing freely and
Harley and scratching money off their
followers what that sounds pretty good
freely and Harley help people change
their life except for the lazy couch
potato frustrated victims like Swayze
Hannah or that other chick you
interviewed who don't understand adapted
thermogenesis ha ha there's no
exclamation point here after ha ha so I
don't know she's really having fun
anymore if you say metabolic damage
doesn't exist
well what about Katie kookaburra who
gained huge weight and got obese on raw
till 4 then after 3 years lost it all ha
ha
ignore that or what
yeah well you know these are certainly
the pressing issues of our time ah you
know I've been writing essays about like
you know mass murder in the history of
China um political history of Japan
Russia I think about a lot of things my
time I think about my own career I've
been applying for jobs you know what I
talked about within veganism also I'd
like to think is actually much more
substantive than this but hey you're a
loser
aisel who got his success of slapping dr
and fls bum like all your other friends
I'm so sorry for you having to sweat in
front of your weird ball microphone and
computer screen breathing in your farts
sweat and smell of crisps well you [ __ ]
about people who are better than you
will ever dream to be well meet my
friends right up steep climbs in the
sunshine feeling amazing laughing and
going for adventures best regards Julia
um I don't know where you got the idea
that my life is boring I have had a very
very interesting life and my life has
included a long-distance cycling my life
has included long-distance cycling in
Thailand and long-distance cycling up
steep climbs I went up one of the
steepest doorstep is a joke homeboy I
went up [ __ ] Fah which is also known as
Poochie fuh a northern dialect issue
there I went up so called blue Melton
and I had to sleep at the Buddhist
monastery at the top of that mountain as
a hell of a story if I were to tell it I
have known a you know what's a real
adventure to me a vacation is not an
adventure to me doing humanitarian work
is a real adventure to me real danger
political danger
putting your life on the line for
something meaningful that's an adventure
paying money to go on a ride at a theme
park is not an adventure and paying
money to go on vacation and ride a
bicycle is not adventure but I mean you
know I can remember it was risking my
life back when I was doing humanitarian
work I did just use a bicycle as a means
of transport to get from one village to
another and sometimes that was risking
my life in some ways and there were some
real adventures and some funny stories
that came out of that and so on that was
a that was when the last of the wild
jungle was being cut down in the
northwest of Laos and the Berner border
with Myanmar today I assume that jungle
is all gone and that was when the roads
were not paved that's when you're
talking about you know dirt roads
logging trails third world conditions no
electricity etc you know no drinking
water
you got to boil the water before I've
had adventures and ironically I've had
adventures in that part of Asia and I've
had adventures involving bicycles but
that was not the meaning of life for me
I was doing humanitarian work I was
doing language research was doing
historical research I was doing NGO
related research research related to the
charity work you know applied research
and you know I was also preparing myself
for a lifetime of being a scholar and
intellectual sinking a lot of time into
everything from political history but
also the history of Buddhism etc I was
cultivating myself for career as a
specialist and I now do not expect to
ever have a career specialist so I don't
know I don't know why you think my life
is boring or that's lacked adventure or
even that it's lacked long-distance
cycling I think my long-distance cycling
credentials are a lot better than yours
actually Julia but hey you know welcome
welcome to the club again I don't think
Julia's an idiot
um all of this she's doing in her second
language I speak German I learned German
in three months I could make a lot of
money writing a book called how to learn
German in three months I still speak
German okay from those three months of
intense study I I haven't really spoken
German in
more than 10 years maybe like closer to
20 years now but there's no way I could
carry on this discourse in German or in
Chinese or in any other language
I wonder if 10 years from now I'll be
able to come on YouTube and speak about
veganism in Chinese so I respect Julia
and you know I think in the next few
years at a minimum her experience with
veganism she's going to really improve
her ability to communicate in English I
have no concerns about her gaining
weight or losing weight I see that stuff
is easy and I think she can attain all
her goals as an athlete no problem
why not the problem what I see for her
is is the ego trip is that cult-like
effect that the durianrider and frilly
thing has on her but I think she'll grow
out of it and I mean the last thing I
said to her I sent one more message
where I just said look I revise my
estimate
instead of saying you'll look back on
this in five years and laugh I think
you'll look back in five months and
laugh and that's not an insult you know
it's a compliment and a lot of people
have gotten in touch with me through
email through my patreon again sign up
for my patreon for those discussions
saying how much their view of the world
changed in just one year becoming vegan
already is a huge change in your view of
the world and then some people go
through a period of believing in crazy
pseudoscience or crazy diets or crazy
forms of activism like I was showing
earlier you know going into a restaurant
and screaming at people having these
emotional outpourings um and within a
few months or within a few years people
adapt they learn they change they move
on and you know that's what's going to
happen to Julia and I'm happy for you
know uh we all got to grow up and
I can't do the grown-up for you